Title: Joc de Trons (Song of Ice and Fire)
Author: George R.R. Martin
Publication Date: 1996 (first book)
Genre: Epic fantasy, dark fantasy

Synopsis:
The Iron Throne is the focus of a fierce battle among noble families from the Seven Kingdoms in the west. Meanwhile, in the north, an eerie threat looms: the White Walkers are advancing beyond the Wall. In exile, Daenerys Targaryen plots to reclaim the throne she believes is rightfully hers.

Principal Characters:
- Eddard "Ned" Stark: Lord of Winterfell, honorable and righteous.
- Jon Snow: bastard son of Lord Ned Stark, joins the Night's Watch.
- Daenerys Targaryen: exiled princess, mother of dragons.
- Tyrion Lannister: dwarf from the powerful Lannister family, clever and cunning.
- Cersei Lannister: queen of the Seven Kingdoms, mother of King Joffrey.
- Arya Stark: youngest daughter of Lord Ned, brave and independent.
- Sansa Stark: eldest daughter of Lord Ned, romantic and naive at first.
- Joffrey Baratheon: cruel and capricious king.

Books of the Saga:
1. Game of Thrones (1996)
2. Dance of Dragons (1998)
3. Storm of Swords (2000)
4. Feast of Crows (2005)
5. Dance of Dragons (2011)
6. Winds of Winter (pending publication)
7. A Dream of Spring (pending publication)

- The TV series "Game of Thrones" by HBO (2011-2019) is one of the most viewed in history.
- Martin draws inspiration from the English Wars of the Roses in the 15th century.
- The Iron Throne is made from the swords of defeated enemies.
- The last two books have not been published as of 2026.
- The most important noble families are Stark, Lannister, Targaryen, Baratheon and Tyrell.

Chapter 1: Winter is approaching

The gray and imposing walls of Hivèrlia rose beneath a sky of lead. In Ned Stark, Lord of the North, a look that blended pride and worry surveyed his lands. The motto of his house, "Winter is coming," was no empty threat: beyond the giant Wall of Ice, something moved in the darkness.

Members of the Night Guard had disappeared while patrolling the wild lands. Ned had seen enough wars to recognize the signs of danger, but he could never have imagined that what was approaching was worse than any human army.

text in catalan: Jo ho vull dir que la gent de l'Estat espanyol, especialment a Catalunya, ha d'acabar de desprésar com ha fet fins avui el Govern d'Espanya per evitar una indústria del càmp que es trobi en una situació de competitivitat amb altres països europeus.

translation in english: I want to say that the people of Spain, especially in Catalonia, have to understand how the Spanish government has been doing so far to avoid an agricultural industry that finds itself in a competitive position with other European countries.

Chapter 2: The King's Call

King Robert Baratheon arrived in Harrenhal with his entire court, filling the castle courtyard with horses, banners and noise. The old friendship between King Robert and Ned dated back to Robert's rebellion, the war that had overthrown the Targaryens, and now the king came with a proposal.

"You will be the King's Hand", said Robert to Ned. The King's Hand was the de facto ruler of the Seven Kingdoms, the most powerful position after the king. Ned knew that accepting meant abandoning Westeros and moving into the viper's nest that was King's Landing, the capital, but he couldn't deny his king and friend."

Text: Jo a dir que, tot i les dificultats que tingem en l'actualitat, cal tenir esperança. La gent pot començar a posar els ulls en el futur i creure que hi ha un millor món per viure. Aquest és una atenció que sempre ha estat important, però és més urgent avui en dia, quan les forces negatives semblen tenir tant poder sobre nosaltres.

Translation: I say that, despite the difficulties we face in the present, we must have hope. People can start looking towards the future and believe that there is a better world to live in. This is an attention that has always been important, but it is more urgent today when the negative forces seem to have so much power over us.

Chapter 3: The Steps of Power at The Landing of the King

The disembarkation of the King was a huge, brutal and fascinating city. The smell of the bay and the shame of the markets mixed with the perfume of the flowers in the royal gardens. In Ned came to the Iron Throne, that monster of iron forged with a thousand swords, and he understood that absolute power had a very high cost.

Ned discovered dangerous secrets about the previous King, Jon Arryn. Cersei and her brother Jaime Lannister concealed a truth that could shake the foundations of the Seven Kingdoms. But Ned was an honorable man, unable to look the other way in the face of injustice.

Por favor, tradueix aquest text de català a l'anglès. Retorni només el text traduït, sense explicacions, sense preàmbul, sense comentaris. Preserveu les pauses i la formació.

---

The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The dog barks at the fox, but the fox is too fast.

El gairebé vermell i negre zorra salta per sobre el llagut càntirro. L'ocó li engaña al gos, però la zorra és massa ràpida.

Chapter 4: Beyond the Wall

Jon Neu had chosen to serve the Night Guard, the keepers of the Wall of Ice that separated the Seven Realms from the wild lands in the north. It was a humble task, but for Jon, it held a purpose he had not found in Hivèrlia, where he had always been "the bastard."

The patrols beyond the Wall revealed a horrifying truth: the White Walkers, creatures of ice and death that were believed to be legend, were moving again. The villages of the north disappeared, and the dead walked back. In Jon Snow, it was understood that the battles for the Iron Throne were a mere trifle compared to the threat that approached from the north.

Catalan:
El català és una llengua romànica parlada al nord-est d'Espanya i a França (en la regió de Catalunya). El seu ús és forçós en els municipis del País Basc, però també hi ha comunitats on és el primer idioma que es parla. En general, català és el segon idioma més important a Espanya, després del castellà. El nombre de persones que parlen català és incert, però s'estima que hi ha uns quatre milions d'habitants de la llengua.

English:
Catalan is a Romance language spoken in northeastern Spain and France (in the region of Catalonia). Its use is compulsory in the municipalities of the Basque Country, but there are also communities where it is the first language spoken. In general, Catalan is the second most important language in Spain, after Castilian. The number of people who speak Catalan is uncertain, but it is estimated that there are about four million speakers.

Chapter 5: Daenerys and the Dragons

On the other side of the Strait of Gibraltar, Daenerys Targaryen lived in exile with her brother Viserys, obsessed with reclaiming the throne that had been taken from them. Married to the khal Drogo, a leader of the nomadic Dothraki people, Daenerys discovered an intense fortress that she did not know existed.

When the three dragon eggs that were given to her as gifts from her husband's funeral pyre hatched into flames, the world changed for her. Three small dragons, the first in centuries, recognized her as their mother. Daenerys Targaryen, Breaker of Chains, Khaleesi of the Great Sea of Grass, had been born from the ashes of her sorrow.

The translator must be able to accurately convey the meaning of the original text while using appropriate vocabulary and syntax in the target language. They should also have a deep understanding of both languages' cultural contexts to avoid any misunderstandings or misinterpretations. In addition, the translator must be fluent in both languages and possess excellent communication skills.

Chapter 6: Betrayal and Death

Ned Stark was captured by the Lannisters when he tried to reveal the truth to the public. Imprisoned in the Red Keep's dungeons, he discovered how power works: promises are worthless, loyalty can be bought and sold, and justice is a luxury that few can afford.

Before the Great Septe of Baelor, in Ned was executed before the crowd. His death marked the beginning of a war that would ravage the Seven Kingdoms for years. The Starks and the Lannisters were to face each other in a battle with no clear winners, while in the north the winter continued to approach, relentless and deadly.